# Introduction #

We hope to have our first ever intern join us to improve our (so-far) mostly one-man project Django-Classcomm.  We expect that intern applicants will produce the amount of work typical of summer internship and will end successfully with a project component that is both complete and demo able.  What follows is the current list of accepted project ideas for this years Google Summer of Code.


# Project Ideas #
Since open source project Django-Classcomm is already hosted here on GoogleCode, our established intern will likely begin working on one of these projects in a new Subversion branch of the latest Experimental branch -> Trunk merge using both Django 1.3 and Django Development versions.  The ideal candidate will follow and help improve upon our development documents, best practices guidelines as well as their own knowledge and preferences.  Our intern will progress from setting up their work environment to helping test, create data and progress towards completing their proposed project.

This will mean working with our tools here on Google Code, as well as our [Project Management JIRA](http://jira.classcomm.org:8080/) and our selected lead mentor and project creator Matt Davis.  While we are open to hearing, reading and accepting other project ideas, our list of current ideas is as follows:

  * **Quizzing System** – Low Hanging Fruit, and a top project pick!  This would be a larger project component for the ambitious GoogleCode intern, and would involve invoking a new app in our Django Project space.  Initial review of existing quizzing systems, and requirements gathering (our mentor will help with this) through the test-driven implementation of a stand-alone quiz app for integration into the main classcomm trunk pipeline.  There is one known [Django quizzing app](https://github.com/myles/django-quiz) to explore, as well as other systems such as the one we are targeting for replacement: [Mallard](https://mallard.math.illinois.edu/).  Our affiliate organization NetMath will provide us with these materials and work with us on those requirements.  We expect to move quickly out of the requirements phase so the intern has plenty of development time to develop this somewhat heavy component.

  * **Classcomm Lecturer** – Low Hanging Fruit.  This project idea may be a new app, or likely an extension on our existing portal apps.  It would have a major focus on mastery of HTML5 especially as it relates to videos on the web.  The goal: make it as straightforward as possible to integrate video lectures as standard Course-content in Classcomm using the new video features available with HTML5.  Our intern would not be focused on refactoring existing valid XHTML to HTML5 but would instead work on entirely new views with templates that generate valid HTML5, and integrate them into a Beta Classcomm release.  While there is plenty of room for the imagination, one important component will be a real time web progress bar for which our mentor has real world Django experience developing just such an item which is important to let authorized Users know the progress on their lecture upload.  Should an intern choose this project they would want to help build Demo Courses and populated with their favourite available lectures.

  * **BlackBoard App** – Low Hanging Fruit.  Maybe you are more interested in developing new Editors for Django: such as sub-classing a TextField to show up in the admin with HTML tag WSIWG panel, or even go so far as to create a brand new Black Board App for creating drawings (in real-time?) sharing them in a Course perhaps as a way to share a diagram and ask for help, or enlighten another student.  What other ideas do you think would be useful for a black board app?  This one is very loosely defined, and would require some serious planning in your application for why this application would be useful in the context of Classcomm.

  * **Social Media Extensions** – Forgot all that other stuff you just learned, we are looking for someone to enjoy their time with GSoC, Django and Matt Davis.  In today’s world many CS types are interested in social networking.  Well we here at Classcomm aren't so different and too have expressed the desire to have strong social media components available that could optionally be enabled on any deployment of Classcomm.  Interested in the fastest route to something like FaceBook chat on a Django auth based network?  So are we, and we’d love for you to help us find it!

  * **SDET** – All Classcomm interns are strongly encouraged to develop tests for their project components.  Should a candidate intern however have a strong testing background especially as it relates to Python and Django development they may desire to fill the role of Software Development Engineer in Test.  This project has followed a strict paradigm of test-driven development, but the inclusion of unit tests is a new and growing phenomenon with a long way to go.  There is a perfect opportunity here for the right intern to develop our test suite to include a much vaster array of tests and to potentially improve our core tests, as well as improve our Django debug environment.  The Django Debug Toolbar has gone a great way to give us access to important test data per request, but Is there a way to go further?  Can we inject data into our context in a development deployment of our web-app live?  We also need to hone in load testing and performance profiling for this project so we can create benchmarks such as with and without the cached template loader.

  * **Active Directory and LDAP Experts** - This one may be more tricky, but one thing that is important to gaining more live Classcomm deployments in the wild is how the application will connect with existing User Auth schemes such as Active Directory and LDAP.  If you have the experience of these authentication patterns to abstract out the common mechanisms and roll them up in a way that will be easily configured to get existing network users up and running in our system then you may be the  one to work on this project.  As a second component we also want the shortest pathway to enable Facebook, Twitter, and OpenID logins to a Classcomm deployment using the best of available Django authentication libraries.

  * **Translations** – As we wrap up releasing the latest version designed to work with Django 1.3 and our core components become more hardened we will begin the work on translating our project components (student\_portal and instructor\_portal) to other languages.  With the existing Admin and registration translations, we expect from experience that Django translations can be straightforward and truly rewarding work.  Should a candidate have languae mastery in another language they may elect to also help with translating to a new target language.  We already have Mentors volunteered to work with English, German, Chinese and Italian.  Unless you are a Django translation expert (and even still) you will likely want this to be a secondary component.

  * **Extend Assignment Submission Flexibility** -–Currently all files saved to the system save off to a filing scheme that is organization in relation to the classes, and files are saved as is.  We believe it would be useful to have a more sophisticated approach where multiple files could be added (such as in Gmail) and behind the scenes the system could possibly package them all in a single zip using the single Django FileField in the Database.  What kind of virus scanning capabilities can we then integrate to help further protect our users.

  * **Your Very Own Unique Proposal** -- Ideally your proposal plans to deal with at least some aspect of the above project ideas, but perhaps you're entirely fad and know a thing our two about Course Management Systems.  Submit to us also any project idea that you feel strongly about working on that you believe will benefit the Classcomm project.  Be sure to try our live demo at (http://classcomm.net/) and really try to hone in on a project that you will be happy working on for the alloted time and that you feel you will be able to make sufficient progress on your own.